Locale-Maketext-Gettext Installation Guide

* Table of Contents

   * System Requirements
   * Installation Instruction
     ** Install with ExtUtils::MakeMaker
     ** Install with Module::Build
     ** Install with the CPAN Shell
     ** Install with the CPANPLUS Shell


* System Requirements

   1. Perl, version 5.8.0 or above.  Locale::Maketext::Gettext uses
the utf8 text internally that is only available since 5.8.0.  You can
run perl -v to see your current Perl version.  If you don't have
Perl, or if you have an older version of Perl, you can download and
install/upgrade it from Perl website.

http://www.perl.com/

      If you are using MS-Windows, you can download and install
ActiveState ActivePerl.

http://www.activestate.com/

   2. Required Perl modules: None.

   3. Optional Perl modules: None.


* Installation Instruction

** Install with ExtUtils::MakeMaker

    arclog uses standard Perl installation with ExtUtils::MakeMaker.
Follow these steps:

    % perl Makefile.PL
    % make
    % make test
    % make install

    When running make install, make sure you have the priviledge to
write to the installation location.  This usually requires the root
priviledge.

    If you are using ActivePerl under MS-Windows, you should use
nmake instead of make. nmake can be obtained from the Microsoft FTP
site.

ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/Softlib/MSLFILES/nmake15.exe

    If you want to install into another location, you can set the
PREFIX.  For example, to install into your home when you are not
root:

    % perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/home/jessica

    Refer to the docuemntation of ExtUtils::MakeMaker for more
installation options (by running perldoc ExtUtils::MakeMaker).


** Install with Module::Build

    You can install with Module::Build instead, if you prefer.
Follow these steps:

    % perl Build.PL
    % ./Build
    % ./Build test
    % ./Build install

    When running ./Build install, make sure you have the priviledge to
write to the installation location.  This usually requires the root
priviledge.

    If you want to install into another location, you can set the
--prefix.  For example, to install into your home when you are not
root:

    % perl Build.PL --prefix=/home/jessica

    Refer to the docuemntation of Module::Build for more
installation options (by running perldoc Module::Build).


** Install with the CPAN Shell

    You can install with the CPAN shell, if you prefer.  CPAN shell
takes care of ExtUtils::MakeMaker and Module::Build for you:

    % cpan Locale::Maketext::Gettext

    Make sure you have the priviledge to write to the installation
location.  This usually requires the root priviledge.  Since CPAN
shell 1.81 you can set "make_install_make_command" and
"mbuild_install_build_command" in your CPAN configuration to switch
to root just before install:

    % cpan
    cpan> o conf make_install_make_command "sudo make"
    cpan> o conf mbuild_install_build_command "sudo ./Build"
    cpan> install Locale::Maketext::Gettext

    If you want to install into another location, you can set the
"makepl_arg" and "mbuild_arg" in your CPAN configuration.  For
example, to install into your home when you are not root:

    % cpan
    cpan> o conf makepl_arg "PREFIX=/home/jessica"
    cpan> o conf mbuild_arg "--prefix=/home/jessica"
    cpan> install Locale::Maketext::Gettext

    Refer to the docuemntation of cpan for more CPAN shell commands
(by running perldoc cpan).


** Install with the CPANPLUS Shell

    You can install with the CPANPLUS shell, if you prefer.  CPANPLUS
shell takes care of ExtUtils::MakeMaker and Module::Build for you:

    % cpanp -i Locale::Maketext::Gettext

    Make sure you have the priviledge to write to the installation
location.  This usually requires the root priviledge.

    If you want to install into another location, you can set the
"makemakerflags" and "buildflags" in your CPANPLUS configuration.
For example, to install into your home when you are not root:

    % cpanp
    CPAN Terminal> s conf makemakerflags "PREFIX=/home/jessica"
    CPAN Terminal> s conf buildflags "--prefix=/home/jessica"
    CPAN Terminal> install Locale::Maketext::Gettext

    Refer to the docuemntation of cpanp for more CPANPLUS shell
commands (by running perldoc cpanp).


imacat
2008-11-11
imacat@mail.imacat.idv.tw
http://www.imacat.idv.tw/
